.env file for env vars (#8968)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/env_var.md

description: "Incorporate environment variables using `env_var` function."
---

import Envvarsecrets from '/snippets/_env-var-secrets.md';
import EnvFileBeta from '/snippets/_env-file-beta.md';
import EnvFileConsiderations from '/snippets/_env-file-considerations.md';

<Envvarsecrets />

If the `DBT_USER` and `DBT_ENV_SECRET_PASSWORD` environment variables are present when dbt is invoked, dbt will use these variables in your connection configuration &mdash; for example, in `profiles.yml` when running locally, or in [deployment credentials](/docs/deploy/deploy-environments#deployment-credentials) if you have a <Constant name="dbt_platform" /> project. If your project references environment variables that aren't set, dbt will raise a compilation error.

### Using the `.env` file

<EnvFileBeta />

> When running dbt locally ([<Constant name="fusion"/> CLI](/docs/local/install-dbt?version=2#get-started), dbt VS Code extension, and <Constant name="core"/> v1.12), dbt automatically loads environment variables from a `.env` file in your current working directory (where you run the dbt command). Shell environment variables take precedence over values in `.env` &mdash; `.env` values will not override variables already set in your shell.

Reviewer: Rather than calling out all of the versions here, it might be beneficial to version block this whole section under FirstVersion="1.12"

If the `DBT_USER` and `DBT_ENV_SECRET_PASSWORD` environment variables are present when dbt is invoked, dbt will use these variables in your connection configuration &mdash; for example, in `profiles.yml` when running locally, or in [deployment credentials](/docs/deploy/deploy-environments#deployment-credentials) if you have a <Constant name="dbt_platform" /> project. If your project references environment variables that aren't set, dbt will raise a compilation error.

> ### `.env` file

Author: ```suggestion
### Using the `.env` file
```

When running dbt locally ([<Constant name="fusion"/> CLI](/docs/local/install-dbt?version=2#get-started), dbt VS Code extension, and <Constant name="core"/>), dbt automatically loads environment variables from a `.env` file in your current working directory (where you run the dbt command). Shell environment variables take precedence over values in `.env` &mdash; `.env` values will not override variables already set in your shell.

Note that dbt loads the `.env` file from the current working directory, not from the directory specified by `--project-dir`. If you run dbt from a different directory than your project root, the `.env` file must be in the directory where you run the command.

> Create a `.env` file in your project root and define variables using `KEY=value` syntax. For example:

Author: ```suggestion
Create a `.env` file (typically at the root of your dbt project) and define variables using `KEY=value` syntax. For example:
```
